docs/components/llms/models/jina.mdx, before:

---
title: Jina AI
description: Guide to use Mem0 with Jina AI Chat
---

# Jina AI

Jina AI provides a powerful chat API with capabilities similar to other major LLM providers. The Jina AI Chat API allows for text generation, function/tool calling, and image input.

## Getting Started

To get started, you need to obtain an API key from Jina AI. You can get one from [chat.jina.ai/api](https://chat.jina.ai/api).

### Installation

Mem0 already includes the necessary dependencies to use Jina AI Chat. No additional installation is required.

### Configuration

Here's an example of how to configure Mem0 to use Jina AI:

```python
from mem0 import Memory

config = {
    "llm": {
        "provider": "jina",
        "config": {
            "model": "jina-chat-v1",  # Default model
            "temperature": 0.1,
            "max_tokens": 2000,
            "api_key": "your-jina-api-key",  # Replace with your API key or set JINA_API_KEY env variable
        }
    },
    "embedder": {
        "provider": "openai",  # You can use any supported embedding provider
        "config": {
            "model": "text-embedding-3-small"
        }
    },
    "vector_store": {
        "provider": "qdrant",  # You can use any supported vector store
        "config": {
            "collection_name": "mem0_jina_example",
            "embedding_model_dims": 1536,
        }
    },
    "version": "v1.1"
}

memory = Memory.from_config(config)
```

Alternatively, you can set the `JINA_API_KEY` environment variable instead of passing it in the config:

```bash
export JINA_API_KEY="your-jina-api-key"
```

## Configuration Options

The Jina LLM provider supports the following configuration options:

| Parameter | Type | Description |
|-----------|------|-------------|
| `model` | `str` | The model to use. Default is `jina-chat-v1`. |
| `temperature` | `float` | Controls the randomness of the output. Lower values make output more deterministic. Default is `0.1`. |
| `max_tokens` | `int` | The maximum number of tokens to generate. Default is `2000`. |
| `top_p` | `float` | An alternative to temperature sampling. Default is `0.1`. |
| `api_key` | `str` | Your Jina AI API key. If not provided, it will try to use the `JINA_API_KEY` environment variable. |
| `jina_base_url` | `str` | The base URL for the Jina AI API. Default is `https://api.chat.jina.ai/v1/chat`. |

## Example Usage

Here's a complete example of using Mem0 with Jina AI:

```python
import os
from mem0 import Memory

# Set your Jina API key
api_key = os.environ.get("JINA_API_KEY")
if not api_key:
    print("Please set your JINA_API_KEY environment variable")
    exit(1)

# Define the configuration
config = {
    "llm": {
        "provider": "jina",
        "config": {
            "model": "jina-chat-v1",
            "temperature": 0.1,
            "max_tokens": 2000,
            "api_key": api_key,
        }
    },
    "embedder": {
        "provider": "openai",
        "config": {
            "model": "text-embedding-3-small"
        }
    },
    "vector_store": {
        "provider": "qdrant",
        "config": {
            "collection_name": "mem0_jina_example",
            "embedding_model_dims": 1536,
        }
    },
    "version": "v1.1"
}

# Initialize Memory with the configuration
memory = Memory.from_config(config)

# Add a memory
user_id = "test-user-1"
memory.add(
    "Jina AI is a powerful LLM with a developer-friendly API.",
    user_id=user_id,
)

# Search for a memory
results = memory.search("What is Jina AI?", user_id=user_id)
for result in results:
    print(result.payload['data'])

# Chat using the LLM
response = memory.chat("Tell me about Jina AI and its features.")
print(response)
```

## Advanced Features

### Using Function/Tool Calling

Jina AI supports function/tool calling, similar to other LLM providers. When using memory.add() with procedural memory types, Mem0 will automatically utilize this capability when appropriate.

### Using Vision Features

Jina AI supports vision features, allowing you to send images along with text prompts. You can enable this by setting `enable_vision` to `True` in your config:

```python
config = {
    "llm": {
        "provider": "jina",
        "config": {
            "model": "jina-chat-v1",
            "enable_vision": True,
            "vision_details": "auto",  # Options: "low", "high", "auto"
            "api_key": "your-jina-api-key",
        }
    },
    # ... other config options
}
```

## Troubleshooting

If you encounter issues with the Jina AI integration, here are some common solutions:

- Make sure your API key is valid and correctly set.
- Check if you're using the correct base URL if you've customized it.
- Ensure you have an active internet connection to reach the Jina AI API.
- If you encounter rate limits, consider adjusting your request frequency.

For more information on the Jina AI Chat API, visit [chat.jina.ai/api](https://chat.jina.ai/api).

## Further Resources

- [Jina AI Documentation](https://jina.ai/docs/)
- [Jina AI Chat](https://chat.jina.ai/)
- [Mem0 Documentation](/)

Commit message:

Change JINA token name and add documentation to differentiate between jina search and jina chat APIs

docs/components/llms/models/jina.mdx, after:

---
title: Jina AI
description: Guide to use Mem0 with Jina AI Chat
---

# Jina AI

Jina AI provides a powerful chat API with capabilities similar to other major LLM providers. The Jina AI Chat API allows for text generation, function/tool calling, and image input.

## Important API Key Distinction

**Note:** Jina AI offers multiple API services including Chat API, Reader API, Search API, Embeddings API, etc. 
- The **Jina Chat API** (used in this integration) requires its own specific API key from [chat.jina.ai/api](https://chat.jina.ai/api) 
- This key is different from keys used for Jina's Reader API, Search API, or other Jina services
- For this integration, you must set the `JINACHAT_API_KEY` environment variable or provide the key in the config

## Getting Started

To get started, you need to obtain a Chat API key from Jina AI. You can get one from [chat.jina.ai/api](https://chat.jina.ai/api).

### Installation

Mem0 already includes the necessary dependencies to use Jina AI Chat. No additional installation is required.

### Configuration

Here's an example of how to configure Mem0 to use Jina AI:

```python
from mem0 import Memory

config = {
    "llm": {
        "provider": "jina",
        "config": {
            "model": "jina-chat-v1",  # Default model
            "temperature": 0.1,
            "max_tokens": 2000,
            "api_key": "your-jina-chat-api-key",  # Replace with your API key or set JINACHAT_API_KEY env variable
        }
    },
    "embedder": {
        "provider": "openai",  # You can use any supported embedding provider
        "config": {
            "model": "text-embedding-3-small"
        }
    },
    "vector_store": {
        "provider": "qdrant",  # You can use any supported vector store
        "config": {
            "collection_name": "mem0_jina_example",
            "embedding_model_dims": 1536,
        }
    },
    "version": "v1.1"
}

memory = Memory.from_config(config)
```

Alternatively, you can set the `JINACHAT_API_KEY` environment variable instead of passing it in the config:

```bash
export JINACHAT_API_KEY="your-jina-chat-api-key"
```

## Configuration Options

The Jina LLM provider supports the following configuration options:

| Parameter | Type | Description |
|-----------|------|-------------|
| `model` | `str` | The model to use. Default is `jina-chat-v1`. |
| `temperature` | `float` | Controls the randomness of the output. Lower values make output more deterministic. Default is `0.1`. |
| `max_tokens` | `int` | The maximum number of tokens to generate. Default is `2000`. |
| `top_p` | `float` | An alternative to temperature sampling. Default is `0.1`. |
| `api_key` | `str` | Your Jina Chat API key. If not provided, it will try to use the `JINACHAT_API_KEY` environment variable. |
| `jina_base_url` | `str` | The base URL for the Jina Chat API. Default is `https://api.chat.jina.ai/v1/chat`. |

## Example Usage

Here's a complete example of using Mem0 with Jina AI:

```python
import os
from mem0 import Memory

# Set your Jina Chat API key
api_key = os.environ.get("JINACHAT_API_KEY")
if not api_key:
    print("Please set your JINACHAT_API_KEY environment variable")
    exit(1)

# Define the configuration
config = {
    "llm": {
        "provider": "jina",
        "config": {
            "model": "jina-chat-v1",
            "temperature": 0.1,
            "max_tokens": 2000,
            "api_key": api_key,
        }
    },
    "embedder": {
        "provider": "openai",
        "config": {
            "model": "text-embedding-3-small"
        }
    },
    "vector_store": {
        "provider": "qdrant",
        "config": {
            "collection_name": "mem0_jina_example",
            "embedding_model_dims": 1536,
        }
    },
    "version": "v1.1"
}

# Initialize Memory with the configuration
memory = Memory.from_config(config)

# Add a memory
user_id = "test-user-1"
memory.add(
    "Jina AI is a powerful LLM with a developer-friendly API.",
    user_id=user_id,
)

# Search for a memory
results = memory.search("What is Jina AI?", user_id=user_id)
for result in results:
    print(result.payload['data'])

# Chat using the LLM
response = memory.chat("Tell me about Jina AI and its features.")
print(response)
```

## Advanced Features

### Using Function/Tool Calling

Jina AI supports function/tool calling, similar to other LLM providers. When using memory.add() with procedural memory types, Mem0 will automatically utilize this capability when appropriate.

### Using Vision Features

Jina AI supports vision features, allowing you to send images along with text prompts. You can enable this by setting `enable_vision` to `True` in your config:

```python
config = {
    "llm": {
        "provider": "jina",
        "config": {
            "model": "jina-chat-v1",
            "enable_vision": True,
            "vision_details": "auto",  # Options: "low", "high", "auto"
            "api_key": "your-jina-chat-api-key",
        }
    },
    # ... other config options
}
```

## Troubleshooting

If you encounter issues with the Jina AI integration, here are some common solutions:

- **API Key Confusion**: Make sure you're using a Jina Chat API key specifically (not a key for Reader API or other Jina services). The "Invalid token" error often occurs when using the wrong type of Jina API key.
- Make sure your API key is valid and correctly set.
- Check if you're using the correct base URL if you've customized it.
- Ensure you have an active internet connection to reach the Jina AI API.
- If you encounter rate limits, consider adjusting your request frequency.

For more information on the Jina AI Chat API, visit [chat.jina.ai/api](https://chat.jina.ai/api).

## Further Resources

- [Jina AI Documentation](https://jina.ai/docs/)
- [Jina AI Chat](https://chat.jina.ai/)
- [Mem0 Documentation](/)
